#labels Featured
* INTRODUCTION *

iMAME4all is a iOS universal app, port of MAME 0.37b5 emulator by Nicola Salmoria for all iOS devices
(iPad HD, iPhone 4G , iPod touch and older) based on GP2X, WIZ MAME4ALL 2.5 by Franxis.

It emulates arcade games supported by original MAME 0.37b5 plus some additional games from newer MAME versions.

This version emulates over 2000 different romsets. (see at the end of document for a list of games that could work). 

Please, try to understand that that with that amount of games, some will run better than others and some might not even run with iMAME4all. 
Please, don´t email me asking for a specific game to run.

Although the performance is very good with modern devices (all games I tested on iPad run practically perfect), owners of older devices should 
not expect a good performance; please turn off sound because that's very helpful.

After installing, place your MAME-titled zipped roms in /var/mobile/Media/ROMs/iMAME4all/roms folder.

Please use "clrmame.dat" file included in /var/mobile/Media/ROMs/iMAME4all to convert romsets from other MAME versions to the ones used by
this version, using ClrMAME Pro utility, available in next webpage:

http://mamedev.emulab.it/clrmamepro/ 

Official web page for news, source code, additional information and donations:
http://code.google.com/p/imame4all/

To see MAME license see the end of this document

* CONTROLS *

The emulator controls are the next ones:
- Virtual pad: Movement in pad, mouse and analog control of the four players. 
- Buttons B,X,A,Y,L,R: Buttons A,B,C,D,E,F.
- Button SELECT (1): Insert credits (UP+SELECT = 2P credits, RIGHT+SELECT = 3P credits, DOWN+SELECT = 4P credits).
- Button START (2): start (UP+START = 2P start, RIGHT+START = 3P start, DOWN+START = 4P start).
- Button L1+R1: Pause.
- Buttons L2: Exit to selection menu to select another game.
- Buttons L1+START simultaneously: Show profiler.
- Buttons START+SELECT simultaneously: Access to the MAME menu.
- Button R2: Open help & global options.

NOTE: To type OK when MAME requires it, press LEFT and then RIGHT.

* EMULATION OPTIONS *

After selecting a game on the list next configuration options are available:

- Video Aspect:
The video aspect is configured with the following combination of options:
Normal: Nominal emulated video resolution (320x240).
Rotate: The window is rotated.
TATE: The window and controls are rotated. (it may help to play some landscape games)

- Video Sync:
Normal: Single buffer and dirty buffer is used.
DblBuf: Double buffer without dirty buffer.
OFF: No video synchronization, use manual frameskip.

- Frame-Skip:
Auto: The frameskip is adjusted automatically in real time.
0 to 11: The frameskip is manually adjusted. The selected frames each 12 are skipped.

- Sound:
The sound options are the following ones:
ON: The sound is activated. 11, 22, 33 and 44 KHz sound mixing rates are available in both mono and stereo.
OFF: The sound is disabled.
Fast sound: Some tweaks are done to improve the performance (but with a bit worse sound quality).

- CPU Clock:
The clock of the CPUs can be adjusted from 50% to 200%. The nominal value is 100% and the CPU is emulated accurately.
The clock can be safely underclocked to about 80% to gain performance in almost all games (be careful because some
games could not run correctly). Use lower values to get more performance but probably several more games would not
run correctly. Also the clock can be overclocked up to 200% to avoid slowdowns in some Neo·Geo games.

- Audio Clock:
The clock of the audio CPUs can also be adjusted from 50% to 200%. The nominal value is 100%. It can be underclocked
and overclocked as well.

- Cheats:
ON: The cheats are enabled. To access in game press SELECT+START and enter the "Cheats" menu.
OFF: The cheats are disabled.
Note: The high scores are not saved if cheats are enabled!!!.

- Auto-Fire:
To access the auto-fire configuration, during game press SELECT+START and enter the "Auto-Fire" menu.

- Press B to play the selected game or X to go back to game selection menu.

* GLOBAL OPTIONS *

-Smoothed image. Enable to apply a smoothing image filter over the emulator screen.

-TV Filter. Enable to apply a TV like filter over the image.

-Sacanline Filter. Enable to apply a scanline filter over the image.

-Landscape Keeps Aspect (iPhone only). 'Enabled' keeps the aspect ratio in landscape mode; 'Disabled' will use all available screen.

-Original size (iPad only). Enable to draw screen at its original size on portrait mode.

-Safe Render Path (iPhone only). Enable at the expenses of performance for maximun compability. Slow in 3G (not recomended unless you find any problem).

-Show 4 Buttons (Landscape): Hide/show Y/A buttons if needed.

-Full Screen (Landscape); Uses all avalible screen or shows the emulator windowed.

-Animted DPad. Animates ON/OFF DPad. Disable to gain performance.

-Low Latency Sound. More accurate sound. Expensive.(keep enabled on iPad)

-Show FPS: Shows ON/OFF fps.

* INSTALLATION *

cheat.dat   -> Cheats definition file
hiscore.dat -> High Scores definition file
artwork/    -> Artwork directory
cfg/        -> MAME configuration files directory
frontend/   -> Frontend configuration files
hi/         -> High Scores directory
inp/        -> Game recordings directory
memcard/    -> Memory card files directory
nvram/      -> NVRAM files directory
roms/       -> ROMs directory
samples/    -> Samples directory
skins/      -> Frontend skins directory
snap/       -> Screen snapshots directory
sta/        -> Save states directory


* SUPPORTED GAMES *

There are 2270 different supported romsets.
Games have to be copied into the roms/ folder.


* ROM NAMES *

Folder names or ZIP file names are listed on "gamelist.txt" file.
Romsets have to be MAME 0.37b5 ones (July 2000).
Additionaly there are additional romsets from newer MAME versions.

Please use "clrmame.dat" file to convert romsets from other MAME versions to the ones used by
this version for GP2X, using ClrMAME Pro utility, available in next webpage:

http://mamedev.emulab.it/clrmamepro/

NOTE: File and directory names in Linux are case-sensitive. Put all file and directory names
using low case!.


* SOUND SAMPLES *

The sound samples are used to get complete sound in some of the oldest games.
They are placed into the 'samples' directory compressed into ZIP files.
The directory and the ZIP files are named using low case!.

The sound samples collection can be downloaded in the following link:
http://dl.openhandhelds.org/cgi-bin/gp2x.cgi?0,0,0,0,5,2511

You can also use "clrmame.dat" file with ClrMAME Pro utility to get the samples pack.


* ARTWORK *

Artwork is used to improve the visualization for some of the oldest games. Download it here:
http://dl.openhandhelds.org/cgi-bin/gp2x.cgi?0,0,0,0,5,2512


* ORIGINAL CREDITS *

- MAME 0.37b5 original version by Nicola Salmoria and the MAME Team (http://www.mame.net).

- Z80 emulator Copyright (c) 1998 Juergen Buchmueller, all rights reserved.

- M6502 emulator Copyright (c) 1998 Juergen Buchmueller, all rights reserved.

- Hu6280 Copyright (c) 1999 Bryan McPhail, mish@tendril.force9.net

- I86 emulator by David Hedley, modified by Fabrice Frances (frances@ensica.fr)

- M6809 emulator by John Butler, based on L.C. Benschop's 6809 Simulator V09.

- M6808 based on L.C. Benschop's 6809 Simulator V09.

- M68000 emulator Copyright 1999 Karl Stenerud.  All rights reserved.

- 80x86 M68000 emulator Copyright 1998, Mike Coates, Darren Olafson.

- 8039 emulator by Mirko Buffoni, based on 8048 emulator by Dan Boris.

- T-11 emulator Copyright (C) Aaron Giles 1998

- TMS34010 emulator by Alex Pasadyn and Zsolt Vasvari.

- TMS9900 emulator by Andy Jones, based on original code by Ton Brouwer.

- Cinematronics CPU emulator by Jeff Mitchell, Zonn Moore, Neil Bradley.

- Atari AVG/DVG emulation based on VECSIM by Hedley Rainnie, Eric Smith and Al Kossow.

- TMS5220 emulator by Frank Palazzolo.

- AY-3-8910 emulation based on various code snippets by Ville Hallik, Michael Cuddy,
  Tatsuyuki Satoh, Fabrice Frances, Nicola Salmoria.

- YM-2203, YM-2151, YM3812 emulation by Tatsuyuki Satoh.

- POKEY emulator by Ron Fries (rfries@aol.com). Many thanks to Eric Smith, Hedley Rainnie and Sean Trowbridge.

- NES sound hardware info by Jeremy Chadwick and Hedley Rainne.

- YM2610 emulation by Hiromitsu Shioya.


* PORT CREDITS *

- Port to iOS by David Valdeita (Seleuco)

- Port to GP2X and WIZ by Franxis (fjmar@hotmail.com) based on source code MAME 0.37b5 (dated on july 2000).

- TheGrimReaper (m_acky@hotmail.com) has colaborated with a lot of things since GP32 MAME 1.3, i.e. Vector graphics support, high scores, general frontend, frontend improvements, bugfixes, etc. Thank you!!!
  
- Pepe_Faruk (joserod@ya.com) has colaborated with new screen centering code. Also he has added some new supported games. Thank you!!!

- Reesy (drsms_reesy@yahoo.co.uk) has developed DrZ80 (Z80 ASM ARM core) and has helped a lot with core integration into MAME. He has also done several fixes to the Cyclone core. You are the best!!!
  
- Flubba (flubba@i-solutions.se) has done some optimizations and improvements to the DrZ80 core. Thank you!!!

- Dave (dev@finalburn.com) has developed Cyclone (M68000 ASM ARM core). Big thanks to him.

- Notaz (notasas@gmail.com) have fixed some bugs in the Cyclone source code. He has also contributed with several useful code to the GP2X scene. Thanks!!!
  http://uosis.mif.vu.lt/~grig2790/Cyclone/ http://notaz.gp2x.de/

- Chui (sdl_gp32@yahoo.es) has developed MAME4ALL, the MAME GP2X port for Dreamcast, Windows and Linux. Also he has done several optimizations aplicable to all targets. http://chui.dcemu.co.uk/mame4all.html

- Slaanesh (astaude@hotmail.com) has continued my work on MAME GP32 and he has done several improvements aplicable to all targets. http://users.bigpond.net.au/mame/gp32/

- GnoStiC (mustafa.tufan@gmail.com) has done the USB Joypad support using the library created by Puck2099.
  
- Sean Poyser (seanpoyser@gmail.com) has done interesting improvements in some drivers. For example the use of diagonals in Q*Bert or the use of the shoulder buttons in Tron.

- TTYman (ttyman@free.fr) has done the MAME GP2X port for the PSP portable console. http://ttyman.free.fr/

- Headoverheels (davega@euskalnet.net) has added some new games to MAME4ALL, and he has also done some optimizations to existing games.


* DEVELOPMENT *

August 18, 2010:
- Version 1.0. First version.

* KNOWN PROBLEMS *

- Only uses 320x240 emulated screen size. Some games are centered nd does not show the whole game.

- Not perfect sound or incomplete in some games.

- Memory leaks. In case of errors, reset iOS and try again please ;-).


* INTERESTING WEBPAGES ABOUT MAME *

- http://www.mame.net/
- http://www.mameworld.net/
- http://www.marcianitos.org/

* ART *

Thanks to: Zenzuke, Chipan, Dokesman, Enkonsierto, Quest, Sttraping, Sike, Danibat, Pedator,
Antiriad and Slaanesh. Thanks to everybody !.